[placeholder] Sidecar Containers alpha feature (#41802)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers.md

The name of each app and init container in a Pod must be unique; a
validation error is thrown for any container sharing a name with another.

### Sidecar containers and restartPolicy

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.28" state="alpha" >}}

> Thanks to a newly available feature gate named `SidecarContainers`, each

Reviewer: Please avoid terms like 'newly available' because things decay very soon in this community.

Reviewer 2: Google have some nice [tips](https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation) on that topic.

> init container can have its own `restartPolicy`, independent of the Pod and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
init container can have its own `restartPolicy`, independent of the Pod and
```

> other init containers, as well as any regular [probe](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#types-of-probe).

Reviewer: ”as well as any regular [probe](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#types-of-probe).“ This is a little bit difficult to parse.

Do you mean the sidecar containers have their own probes in addition to the "regular" probes?

> If an init container is created with a `restartPolicy` set to `Always`, it will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an init container is created with its `restartPolicy` set to `Always`, it will
```

start and remain running during the entire life of the Pod, which is useful for

> running supporting services isolated from the main application container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
running supporting services separated from the main application containers.
```

You can also specify a `readinessProbe` to help kubelet determine the `ready`

> state of these containers.

Reviewer: I don't think there is a `ready` state for any containers. Please tune this to be precise.

> determine the `ready` state of these containers.

Reviewer 3: You can remove `startupProbe` here and add it to L312.

Author: thanks for the feedback, updated

Since these containers are defined as init containers, they benefit from the same
ordering and sequential guarantees as other init containers, allowing them to
be mixed with other init containers into complex Pod initialization flows.

The only difference is that they are not required to complete before the next

> init container starts, so next init container will start after the current

Reviewer: ```suggestion
init container starts, so a next init container will start after the current
```

> container has been marked as `started` as a result of its `startupProbe`.

Reviewer: How am I supposed to peek into this result? The `startupProbe` returns a `started` result?

Reviewer 2: Where would a Kubernetes user observe the string `started`?

Author: in the Pod.status.containerStatuses[id of container].started

Reviewer 2: Ah, to be clear: don't tell me, tell the reader.

This feature can be used to implement the sidecar container pattern in a more

> robust way, as the sidecar container will be restarted if it fails directly
> by the kubelet, instead of relying on the application container to restart it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
robust way, as the kubelet always restarts a sidecar container if it fails.
```

Here's an example of a Deployment with two containers, one of which is a sidecar:

> ```yaml

Reviewer: This snippet is a good example for users to try out. Please consider using the `codenew` shortcode rather than embedding the yaml in the markdown.

Reviewer 2: The shortcode for this is now `code`, but I don't think the switch has merged into _dev-1.28_ yet. So `codenew` is the right thing for now.

See https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/hugo-shortcodes/#source-code-files for details.

The name of each app and init container in a Pod must be unique; a
validation error is thrown for any container sharing a name with another.

### Sidecar containers and restartPolicy

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.28" state="alpha" >}}

Thanks to a newly available feature gate named `SidecarContainers`, each
init container can have its own `restartPolicy`, independent of the Pod and the
other init containers, as well as any regular [probe](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#types-of-probe).

If an init container is created with a `restartPolicy` set to `Always` and either

> a `startupProbe` or a `readinessProbe`, it will start and remain running during the

Author: right, if you don't add a probe it should assume ready immediately

entire life of the Pod, which is useful for running supporting services isolated
from the main application container.

Since these containers are defined as init containers, they benefit from the same
ordering and sequential guarantees as other init containers, allowing them to
be mixed with other init containers into complex Pod initialization flows.

The only difference is that they are not required to complete before the next

> init container starts. The next init container will start

Reviewer 4: I may be wrong but the next containers (init, sidecar and regular) will start without waiting for the readinessProbe of the sidecar container. However, the startupProbe will block the next containers from starting. Therefore, can we remove the readinessProbe from the list here?

I manually built a Kubernetes image on top of the [k/k#119168](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/119168) branch.

Example manifest:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: pod-with-sidecar
spec:
  initContainers:
  - name: sidecar-1
    image: cgr.dev/chainguard/wolfi-base:latest
    restartPolicy: Always
    command: ["ash", "-c", "trap 'echo Terminated; exit' TERM; echo Started; while true; do sleep 1; done"]
    startupProbe:
      exec:
        command: ["ash", "-c", "echo StartupProbe Started > /proc/1/fd/1; sleep 5; echo Ready > /proc/1/fd/1"]
      initialDelaySeconds: 5
      timeoutSeconds: 8
      periodSeconds: 10
  - name: sidecar-2
    image: cgr.dev/chainguard/wolfi-base:latest
    restartPolicy: Always
    command: ["ash", "-c", "trap 'echo Terminated; exit' TERM; echo Started; while true; do sleep 1; done"]
    readinessProbe:
      exec:
        command: ["ash", "-c", "echo ReadinessProbe Started > /proc/1/fd/1; sleep 5; echo Ready > /proc/1/fd/1"]
      initialDelaySeconds: 5
      timeoutSeconds: 8
      periodSeconds: 10
  - name: sidecar-3
    image: cgr.dev/chainguard/wolfi-base:latest
    restartPolicy: Always
    command: ["ash", "-c", "trap 'echo Terminated; exit' TERM; echo Started; while true; do sleep 1; done"]
  - name: init-1
    image: cgr.dev/chainguard/wolfi-base:latest
    command: ["ash", "-c", "echo Started; echo Sleep 5s; sleep 5; echo Terminated"]
  containers:
  - name: regular-1
    image: cgr.dev/chainguard/wolfi-base:latest
    command: ["ash", "-c", "trap 'echo Terminated; exit' TERM; echo Started; while true; do sleep 1; done"]
```

Output of logs:

```console
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-1 2023-07-15T15:02:35.519453345+09:00 Started
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-1 2023-07-15T15:02:44.311023729+09:00 StartupProbe Started
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-1 2023-07-15T15:02:49.313148645+09:00 Ready
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-2 2023-07-15T15:02:50.321858560+09:00 Started
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-3 2023-07-15T15:02:52.244926416+09:00 Started
pod-with-sidecar init-1    2023-07-15T15:02:54.202493238+09:00 Started
pod-with-sidecar init-1    2023-07-15T15:02:54.202508946+09:00 Sleep 5s
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-2 2023-07-15T15:02:55.276622490+09:00 ReadinessProbe Started
pod-with-sidecar init-1    2023-07-15T15:02:59.203584495+09:00 Terminated
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-2 2023-07-15T15:03:00.278128494+09:00 Ready
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-2 2023-07-15T15:03:00.310978057+09:00 ReadinessProbe Started
pod-with-sidecar regular-1 2023-07-15T15:03:01.229849002+09:00 Started
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-2 2023-07-15T15:03:05.312446353+09:00 Ready
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-2 2023-07-15T15:03:05.341708571+09:00 ReadinessProbe Started
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-2 2023-07-15T15:03:10.343852486+09:00 Ready
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-2 2023-07-15T15:03:14.308408140+09:00 ReadinessProbe Started
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-2 2023-07-15T15:03:19.311955211+09:00 Ready
pod-with-sidecar regular-1 2023-07-15T15:03:20.090222021+09:00 Terminated
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-1 2023-07-15T15:03:20.093206038+09:00 Terminated
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-3 2023-07-15T15:03:20.093311954+09:00 Terminated
pod-with-sidecar sidecar-2 2023-07-15T15:03:20.095270312+09:00 Terminated
```

Author: Normally there should be a PR to add support for readinessProbe... If it doesn't merge before freeze I'll drop it from the doc.
Thanks for checking that :+1:

Reviewer 3: According to the KEP, the kubelet is supposed to wait for the startup completion. The readiness probe of a sidecar container will contribute to determine the readiness of a Pod.

https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/753-sidecar-containers/README.md#proposal

after the `startupProbe` or `readinessProbe` of the container has succeeded.

This feature can be used to implement the sidecar container pattern in a more
robust way, as the sidecar container will be restarted if it fails directly
by the kubelet, instead of relying on the application container to restart it.

> 

Reviewer 5: Might mention how it makes it possible to use sidecars with Jobs as well. That's a use case that's not easy without this feature.

### Sidecar containers and restartPolicy

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.28" state="alpha" >}}

Thanks to a newly available feature gate named `SidecarContainers`, each
init container can have its own `restartPolicy`, independent of the Pod and the
other init containers, as well as any regular [probe](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#types-of-probe).

If an init container is created with a `restartPolicy` set to `Always`, it will
start and remain running during the entire life of the Pod, which is useful for
running supporting services isolated from the main application container.
You can also specify a `startupProbe` and/or a `readinessProbe` to help kubelet
determine the `ready` state of these containers.

Since these containers are defined as init containers, they benefit from the same
ordering and sequential guarantees as other init containers, allowing them to
be mixed with other init containers into complex Pod initialization flows.

The only difference is that they are not required to complete before the next
init container starts, which is impossible, so next init container will start

> after the current container has been marked as `ready`.

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/753-sidecar-containers/README.md#pod-startup-completed-condition

marked as `started`. ?

Author: Hmm right, but then what's the purpose of the readinessProbe in that case?

Reviewer 3: It determines the ready state of the restartable init container, and the pod's ready state should include not only regular containers but also restartable init containers.

e.g. If the proxy sidecar is not ready, the pod should not get any traffic from the service.

Author: Can you suggest a modification or change the PR commit? I am in Paris without a computer until Friday, and I think doc freeze is today?

Reviewer 3: > done

I guess docs can be reviewed and merged until the 8th of August?

> after the current container has been marked as `ready`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
after the current container has been marked as `started`.
```
